All right, so the next problem
that we are going to deal up with is
little bit had to do more
with the syntax of Python rather
than just solving the problem.
This exact same problem can be
solved by if and else, and rightly
so, it can be easily done.
But the whole point of learning
the Python so that we can understand
variety of syntax that
other people are writing.
And this is one of the common way
of writing the Python syntax.
So notice here the problem statement.
First let's go ahead and read this.
This is the most fun part.
You run an online T store.
I would love to run
an online T store.
If the order amount is more than 300,
delivery is free,
otherwise it costs 30 rupees.
Fair deal.
Now the task that we have is
input the order amount
and use a ternary operator
to decide the delivery fees.
Now there are a variety
of ways how this problem can be
solved and rightfully so.
I can simply take the order amount,
then I can do an if and else.
If the order amount is more
than 300, I can mark a variable
delivery fees as 0.
If it is less than 300, I
can mark it as 330 rupees.
Surely I am pretty sure
you can do this now.
But the way how it is asked us
to do so is use the ternary
operator to decide the fees.
This is where the syntax
comes and it's a really
interesting syntax.
So let's call this one as new file
and we're going to call this one as
delivery fees waiver or calculator.
I think waiver would
be good waiver py.
So the way how we want
to do it, first of all we have
to grab the order amount.
So let's go ahead and say this
is our order amount that we
have and the order amount.
Again my AI needs to shut
up and the order amount.
So how we're going to do this, we
are going to first go ahead and take
the input and we'll ask the user
to say enter the order amount.
There we go.
Now whatever the user enters at his
order amount first we need to check
that how we are getting the data.
And for this I would like to print
this order amount just like this.
Let's use a formatted string
and say order amount.
And I can definitely go ahead
and get the order amount as a value.
But what I really want is
to check the type of it.
And the way how we do it is
just put the type
and I simply say order amount.
Now this will teach you a really
interesting aspect of how we
go ahead and run the program
or how we get the input data.
So I'll just go ahead and say
Python 3 and we are going
to run this delivery fees.
It asks us the order amount and I
just say this is 40, rupees.
Now, notice here it says
the class of string.
So the data that we are getting
from the user back is actually
in the string format.
You might be wondering,
no, this is a number.
This is a number.
But in the world of Python,
there are two different things.
Once you write a 40 like
this, and once you write a 40
like this, there is a huge
difference between them.
One inside the double
quote is a string.
One, this is a number.
So we need to figure out
a way how we can convert this string
into a number.
And trust me, there
is a super easy way.
Just take your input, wrap them,
in a parenthesis, and this just
at the front of it, write int.
Int stands for integer.
Just like this, you can
convert them into float as
well or a string as well.
The moment you say int, that means
whatever the value is coming up
from, which is a string, it will try
its best to convert into the string.
If it fail, that's okay,
but it will try its best.
Let's run the program again.
And when I say 40 this time,
notice here, the class
changes to the integer
and the order amount is 40.
But yes, our program is still
prone to some of the errors.
We will talk about them
as we go forward.
Let's just say instead
of the amount, if I just go ahead
and add my, it will crash.
That, hey, I don't know how
to convert hitesh into a number
or rather a specific integer.
So this is the first part that you
have learned so far and pretty good.
Notice here.
Each project gives you
a new knowledge which is
absolutely, I love.
All right, next up, what we want
to do now that we have gone through
with this, particular cycle,
let's see how we want
to calculate the delivery fees.
So I have another one.
Delivery fees.
Now you can just go ahead and do
something like this, that my
Delivery fees is 0 as of now
and I can do a simple if statement.
If the order amount is greater than
300, I can just go ahead and change
the value of this delivery fees
instead of pointing towards zero.
If it is above 300, then I can
just keep it as it is zero.
And in the else part, if it is less
than 300 or I can use an else if
that is also if the order amount
is less than 300, I can mark it.
All we can do.
But I want you to pay attention
on this ternary operation.
In the world of ternary
operation, how you can actually
shrink this piece of code
instead of if and else.
It might sound a little
bit overwhelming at first,
but just pay attention.
Right now we have
a variable, delivery fees.
After that you're putting up what
should go inside this variable.
It can be zero or it
can be something.
The way how ternary operation work,
you simply say the delivery fees
is zero if the order amount that
you have is greater than 300.
And on the same line you can say else
the order fees will be 30 rupees.
Now this looks like a lot,
but notice here what's happening.
This whole thing is being calculated,
this whole thing is being evaluated.
And whatever is the result that
goes into the delivery fees
as a variable, the first
value that we are Putting up is 0.
If the order amount is above 300, if
this statement is correct, then this
value will go inside the variable.
If this statement is false,
then the else part, whatever
the value are putting up will
go inside the delivery fees.
Let's go ahead and try this and try
to print the delivery fees so
that we can see that in action.
So we'll just go ahead and print
the statement and we're going
to say delivery fees is.
And we'll use our classic
just like this, delivery fees.
All right, and why is
it having the issue?
I guess delivery fees is.
And I forgot to close this one should
be all happy now let's try to run
this program and see what happens.
So let's just say
enter the order amount.
Let's just say my
order amount is 100.
So in that case
the delivery fees is 30.
If I run it again and if my order
amount is, let's just say 400,
the delivery fees is zero.
So you can see both
the things in action.
We get the delivery fees as 0 and 30.
And this is a lot that we are writing
in just one line of code.
And that is why I say
Python looks simple.
It's just like reading English.
But sometimes the logic is little
bit interesting to Var out for.
So, so that is what I'm saying.
Go ahead and Var out
for these things.
And again we can only learn
about them as we write these kinds
of real world programs and try
to solve real world problems
as a software problems.
That is it for this video.
Make sure to review us and let's
catch up in the next video.